# Bike_Sharing_Demand_Prediction
Bike demand prediction is a common problem faced by bike rental companies, as accurately forecasting the demand for bikes can help optimize inventory and pricing strategies. In this project, I aim to develop a regression supervised machine learning model to predict the demand for bikes in a given time period.
Originally dataset of bike rental information from a bike sharing company, had information including details on the number of bikes rented, the time and date of the rental, and various weather and seasonality features, information on other relevant factors that could impact bike demand, such as holidays, functioning or non functioning day.
After preprocessing and cleaning the data, I split it into training and test sets and used the training data to train our machine learning model. I experimented with several different model architectures and hyperparameter settings, ultimately selecting the model that performed the best on the test data.
To evaluate the performance of our model, I used a variety of metrics, including mean absolute error, root mean squared error, and R-squared. I found that our model was able to make highly accurate predictions, with an R-squared value of 0.88 and a mean absolute error of just 2.58.
In addition to evaluating the performance of our model on the test data, I also conducted a series of ablation studies to understand the impact of individual features on the model's performance. I found that the temperature, as well as the weather and seasonality features, had the greatest impact on bike demand.

